# List of known git commands.
# command name				category [deprecated] [common]
git-add                                 mainporcelain common
git-am                                  mainporcelain
git-annotate                            ancillaryinterrogators
git-apply                               plumbingmanipulators
git-archimport                          foreignscminterface
git-archive                             mainporcelain
git-bisect                              mainporcelain common
git-blame                               ancillaryinterrogators
git-branch                              mainporcelain common
git-bundle                              mainporcelain
git-cat-file                            plumbinginterrogators
git-check-attr                          purehelpers
git-checkout                            mainporcelain common
git-checkout-index                      plumbingmanipulators
git-check-ref-format                    purehelpers
git-cherry                              ancillaryinterrogators
git-cherry-pick                         mainporcelain
git-citool                              mainporcelain
git-clean                               mainporcelain
git-clone                               mainporcelain common
git-commit                              mainporcelain common
git-commit-tree                         plumbingmanipulators
git-config                              ancillarymanipulators
git-count-objects                       ancillaryinterrogators
git-cvsexportcommit                     foreignscminterface
git-cvsimport                           foreignscminterface
git-cvsserver                           foreignscminterface
git-daemon                              synchingrepositories
git-describe                            mainporcelain
git-diff                                mainporcelain common
git-diff-files                          plumbinginterrogators
git-diff-index                          plumbinginterrogators
git-diff-tree                           plumbinginterrogators
git-difftool                            ancillaryinterrogators
git-fast-export				ancillarymanipulators
git-fast-import				ancillarymanipulators
git-fetch                               mainporcelain common
git-fetch-pack                          synchingrepositories
git-filter-branch                       ancillarymanipulators
git-fmt-merge-msg                       purehelpers
git-for-each-ref                        plumbinginterrogators
git-format-patch                        mainporcelain
git-fsck	                        ancillaryinterrogators
git-gc                                  mainporcelain
git-get-tar-commit-id                   ancillaryinterrogators
git-grep                                mainporcelain common
git-gui                                 mainporcelain
git-hash-object                         plumbingmanipulators
git-help				ancillaryinterrogators
git-http-backend                        synchingrepositories
git-http-fetch                          synchelpers
git-http-push                           synchelpers
git-imap-send                           foreignscminterface
git-index-pack                          plumbingmanipulators
git-init                                mainporcelain common
git-instaweb                            ancillaryinterrogators
gitk                                    mainporcelain
git-log                                 mainporcelain common
git-lost-found                          ancillarymanipulators	deprecated
git-ls-files                            plumbinginterrogators
git-ls-remote                           plumbinginterrogators
git-ls-tree                             plumbinginterrogators
git-mailinfo                            purehelpers
git-mailsplit                           purehelpers
git-merge                               mainporcelain common
git-merge-base                          plumbinginterrogators
git-merge-file                          plumbingmanipulators
git-merge-index                         plumbingmanipulators
git-merge-one-file                      purehelpers
git-mergetool                           ancillarymanipulators
git-merge-tree                          ancillaryinterrogators
git-mktag                               plumbingmanipulators
git-mktree                              plumbingmanipulators
git-mv                                  mainporcelain common
git-name-rev                            plumbinginterrogators
git-notes                               mainporcelain
git-pack-objects                        plumbingmanipulators
git-pack-redundant                      plumbinginterrogators
git-pack-refs                           ancillarymanipulators
git-parse-remote                        synchelpers
git-patch-id                            purehelpers
git-peek-remote                         purehelpers	deprecated
git-prune                               ancillarymanipulators
git-prune-packed                        plumbingmanipulators
git-pull                                mainporcelain common
git-push                                mainporcelain common
git-quiltimport                         foreignscminterface
git-read-tree                           plumbingmanipulators
git-rebase                              mainporcelain common
git-receive-pack                        synchelpers
git-reflog                              ancillarymanipulators
git-relink                              ancillarymanipulators
git-remote                              ancillarymanipulators
git-repack                              ancillarymanipulators
git-replace                             ancillarymanipulators
git-repo-config                         ancillarymanipulators	deprecated
git-request-pull                        foreignscminterface
git-rerere                              ancillaryinterrogators
git-reset                               mainporcelain common
git-revert                              mainporcelain
git-rev-list                            plumbinginterrogators
git-rev-parse                           ancillaryinterrogators
git-rm                                  mainporcelain common
git-send-email                          foreignscminterface
git-send-pack                           synchingrepositories
git-shell                               synchelpers
git-shortlog                            mainporcelain
git-show                                mainporcelain common
git-show-branch                         ancillaryinterrogators
git-show-index                          plumbinginterrogators
git-show-ref                            plumbinginterrogators
git-sh-setup                            purehelpers
git-stash                               mainporcelain
git-status                              mainporcelain common
git-stripspace                          purehelpers
git-submodule                           mainporcelain
git-svn                                 foreignscminterface
git-symbolic-ref                        plumbingmanipulators
git-tag                                 mainporcelain common
git-tar-tree                            plumbinginterrogators	deprecated
git-unpack-file                         plumbinginterrogators
git-unpack-objects                      plumbingmanipulators
git-update-index                        plumbingmanipulators
git-update-ref                          plumbingmanipulators
git-update-server-info                  synchingrepositories
git-upload-archive                      synchelpers
git-upload-pack                         synchelpers
git-var                                 plumbinginterrogators
git-verify-pack                         plumbinginterrogators
git-verify-tag                          ancillaryinterrogators
git-whatchanged                         ancillaryinterrogators
git-write-tree                          plumbingmanipulators
